(*) Funcionamiento de port knocking

Port knocking is a method of "message transmission across closed ports." It works like this: initially a firewall blocks all ports on the server. The client issues a series of connection requests (knocks) to different ports; these are, of course, dropped since the ports are blocked. However, there is a daemon that monitors the log files for connection requests, and the sequence of requests serves as an encrypted code. If the code makes sense to the daemon, it enables SSH or another service (for a particular IP address and on a particular port encoded by the knock sequence).


Arvind provides a good description of port knocking here.

Port knocking acts as an extra layer of security. It is also claimed to have the advantage of stealth: an attacker can't detect whether you're using port knocking or not. 


(*) Otra definicion

To eliminate the risk associated with publically open ports, port knocking
provides an authentication system that works across closed ports. 


(*) Una barrera mas de seguridad

Port knocking relies on a secret - the secret knock. This fact does not make port knocking an obscure system. First, the knock should be encrypted to make it more difficult to deconstruct it and reassemble the knock information with a malevolent payload. Second, port knocking is fully compatible with the notion of access control. The knocking daemon monitors knock attempts by way of a firewall log file. Third, attempts at breaching the system through brute-force guessing can be easily detected.


(*) Porque proteger servicios publicos?

Port knocking is meant to protect vulnerable network services against public access. It is an added form of security, and not meant as a replacement for regular security maintenance. If you go on holidays and someone discovers and disseminates a vulnerability in an ssh implementation, and you are unlucky enough to be running this implementation, your system is vulnerable. You may come back in time to read the bulletin and patch your server - or not. In such a case, port knocking would be used to keep port 22 closed. Of course, you would still patch your server as soon as you got back, right?

Patching is not merely an option, it is a requirement of keeping a system secure.


(*) La seguridad de port knocking está limitada al ámbito

The stealthiness of port knocking is limited in scope, by design


(*) Lo bueno de un módulo en kernel

This brings me to the point of what happens if a port knocking daemon is disabled by a remote attacker. This is possible if the implementation contains bugs which cause unexpected behaviour for some combinations of port numbers, for example. If the daemon dies, then no further authentication is possible and the system is effectively knocked offline. The down side: nobody can connect. The up side: nobody can successfully attack, either.

(*) Porqué no un demonio de port knocking

Trusted users manipulate firewall rules by transmitting information across closed ports.

Finally, any system that manipulates firewall rules in an automated fashion
requires careful implementation. For the scenario in which no ports are
initially open, if the listening dæmon fails or is not able to interpret the
knocks correctly, it becomes impossible to connect remotely to the host.


(*) Para funcionar, no necesita ...

Port knocking does not require any open ports, and it can be extended to
transmit any type of information encoded in a port sequence.


(*) Beneficios

One of the key features of port knocking is it provides a stealthy method of
authentication and information transfer to a networked machine that has no
open ports. It is not possible to determine successfully whether the machine
is listening for knock sequences by using port probes. Thus, although a
brute-force attack could be mounted to try to guess the ports and the form of
the sequence, such breach attempts could be detected easily.

Third, because the authentication is built into the port knock sequence,
existing applications need not be changed.


(*) Enlaces de interes:


http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/6811

http://www.portknocking.org/
